# Exploratory Data Analysis on Global Terrorism
# Dataset Link : https://bit.ly/2TK5Xn5
The Global Terrorism Database (GTD) is an open-source database including information on terrorist attacks around the world from 1970 through 2017. The GTD includes systematic data on domestic as well as international terrorist incidents that have occurred during this time period and now includes more than 180,000 attacks. The database is maintained by researchers at the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START), headquartered at the University of Maryland.
I explored the whole dataset to find out hot zones of terrorism and get insights about terrorist attacks and organisations.
I have used proper plots to visualise every analysis.
Some of my analysis are : Year wise attack analysis, Region, Country, State and City wise attack analysis, Targets of terrorists, Weapons used by terrorist organisations, Terrorist Organisation analysis.
Key Observations : Middle East & North Africa and South Asia are most targeted regions. Iraq is most targeted, it tops the list of nations with highest number of terrorist attacks with a considerable margin and is followed by Pakistan, Afghanistan and India. Baghdad which is capital of Iraq is most targeted city. Top targets for terrorists are civil population, military, police and government(general). Growth of attacks and terrorist groups in a decade and rise in their power. A lot of unknown and known terrorist groups have been involved in number of attacks and their involvement is basically due to their beliefs and selfish behaviour. Part larger, Islamic States, Religion, internal goverment issues (political activity) can be seen as strong influence and motivation for an individual joining and staying with the terrorist groups. Taliban which has involved in over 8500 attacks and targets Afghanistan mostly. Islamic State of Iraq and Levant, which has involved in over 7500 attacks and targets Iraq mostly. Taliban, Islamic State of Iraq and Levant(ISIL), Shining Path(SL) and Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front(FMLN) are top terrorists organisations which targets Afghanistan, Iraq, Peru, El Salvador respectively the most. Karachi and Jammu Kashmir are most targeted states of Pakistan and India respectively.
